MSC1920: Alternative texts for stickers (#1920)
matrix-org/matrix-doc: proposals/1920-stickers-alternative-text.md

# Alternative texts for stickers

> The current `m.sticker` event definition include a description field for the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The current `m.sticker` event definition includes `body` as a description field for the
```

sticker. This allows clients to attach a short description of the sticker in an

> event. So far this field has mainly been used to give a literal description of

Reviewer 2: It's unclear to me what the `body`s role is now? You've stated that the `body` is used for something similar to `alt_text` but is not used exclusively for that. This implies that `body` needs to be more strict about what it cannot contain (not things that are suited for `alt_text`).

I worry this PR is going to leave people trying to support both `body` and `alt_text`, and without a clear seperation of what they are, will end up duping the values for both.

What I want to see is:

- What *you* think body should and shouldn't be used for?
- What you think "alternative text" is for the image (if you want to reference `alt` from the HTML spec, please do but make it explicit that you are copying that.

what is being shown on the image (in the same way an alternative text would do),
but the specification says it can also be "a message to accompany and further
describe the sticker".

On the one hand it may improve the user experience to use this field for a short
text that accompanies the image rather than describing it, on the other hand
it's important for accessiblity, and also clients that don't support stickers
(or media in general), to have something to use as a down-to-earth description
of what's shown in the sticker.

## Proposal

> Add a new optional `alt_text` field to the `m.sticker` event definition which

Reviewer 2: Was there a reason *not* to mirror `alt` of HTML. `alt_text` looks clunky next to `body` (as then I'd argue for `body_text`?

contains the alternative text to the image. A `m.sticker` event would look like:

```json
{

>     "type": "m.sticker",

Reviewer 2: By and large, I also think this spec applies to `m.image` and it's a shame we are going to skip it entirely, or spec the same thing identically. This is more of a crapness of having stickers be near identical clones of `m.image` where they should have really been a superset, and inherited it's kets.

    "content": {
        "url": "mxc://matrix.org/mRJacbBEPAJczvOltdhABxSv",
        "info": {
            "h": 256,
            "mimetype": "image/png",
            "size": 21957,
            "thumbnail_info": {
                "h": 256,
                "mimetype": "image/png",
                "size": 21957,
                "w": 222
            },
            "thumbnail_url": "mxc://matrix.org/mRJacbBEPAJczvOltdhABxSv",
            "w": 222
        },
        "alt_text": "The white Matrix logo over a black hexagon",

>         "body": "Matrix!"

Reviewer 2: Small annoying nag, but "Matrix!" doesn't fit the spec of `body` "a message to accompany and further
describe the sticker". If we are going to include the sticker body, let's be consistent.
